# Optimal-placement-of-Micro-mobility-services-in-Austin-using-Python and ArcGIS

An increase in vehicle carbon footprint is a global concern that the countries are seeking to address consciously.  Governments are proactive in dealing with this issue by introducing shared mobility devices in cities. Shared mobility devices are transport systems that allow citizens to pool or share their mode of commute. Shared Vehicle services refer to two-wheeler motorcycles, mopeds, small electric vehicles that require a license to drive. Micro mobility devices are a component of the shared mobility systems that majorly involve scooters, skateboards, bicycles or any other compact devices without a license plate. To improve the Air Quality Index (AQI) and reduce vehicular traffic city governments are implementing the shared mobility systems in their downtowns. 
This project is a case study that evaluates the data corresponding to the trips completed by the shared mobility devices in Austin, Texas for a period. Later, the impact of this activity on the city’s traffic eco-system and the environment is assessed. The trip information and traffic data are pooled from multiple government sources and patterns will be drawn to establish the correlation. The problem is addressed by performing exploratory data analysis and building Regression and Supervised Classification algorithms like Random Forest and Gradient Boosting. The case also studies the usage of micro-mobility devices at different times in a day. The outcomes of this research will be inferences and conclusions on the Traffic and air quality in Austin due to the activity of micro-mobility devices. These findings will benefit the city government of Austin and can be extended to other downtowns. This paper also explores the optimal placement of these Shared Services using ArcGIS
